# esp8266_bmp280

Last couple days been studying and writing some modules for the bmp280 pressure sensor module in preparation for including it in one of my larger projects. I've got a little project running where the esp device (an esp8266 D1mini in this case) masters an i2c bus going to the bmp280. When the tcp server running on the esp receives a properly formatted http request packet it responds with a packet of data with the most recent temp and pressure data.  On a desktop I am running a shell script that periodically issues a curl command with the http request, receives the response, timestamps it and appends it to a data file. The data file is formatted for a gnuplot script file that outputs a graph as the one accompanying.
Discussion - Over short time intervals this device's resolution and repeatability can, impressively, monitor relative height within about a foot (comparable a ppm).  Over the longer term: while I was working on this a storm was moving through the northeast that saw a fluctuation in pressure of between 984-1018 hPa (which would have been 1000 feet of altitude change). The night that I got it working there was a wind advisory with up to 50mph gusts, it looked like the thing was not going to be useful for my purpose - had relative height reading changing by fifty feet over the course of 10 minutes! (NOT good for an indoor drone) The temperature data also showed that my house was losing heat like five times faster because of the wind (new windows?). When the wind died down my 10 minute drifts from a unit on my desk decreased to the two foot range. The bug took me the longest to debug was one of the dozen calibration parameters was converted to double wrong - resulting in the calculation temperature changing in ~0.5 degree steps (throwing away the decimal portion).
Think I'll keep one running for a while (anywhere there is a usb charger) and cycle the collection script on one of my permanently on desktops.

